---
layout: post
title: Frills
date: 2024-10-22 01:00:00 -0800
categories: [docs]
tags: [frill]
---

This is a description of a race of people tha live in the world of Threa, the Frills.

# WIP

everithing bellow is a work in progress

## Appearance
Appearance-wise, the Frills are quite standard looking, with five-fingered hands and feet and a wide range of builds. The color of their skin ranges with various tints and shades of cyan. Their hair and eye are colored in shades and tints of blue Additionally, their hair clumps into sections that appear like spikes. Typically, they have three to five sections in the back, one covering each ear, and two or three sections in the front. They may have other smaller sections.

Frill society is a matriarchy. The Matriarch and her family rule their territory with the help of minor families. The matriarch and her family, as well as the Matrons and their minor families, are known as the Kin class. The Kin are the ruling class, donning elegant clothes in blacks, greys, and browns. The Matriarch herself wears a black and orange coat. There are two other classes, the Wards and the Drudge. The Wards work in service jobs such as cooking, storekeeping, and guarding, among others, and wear simple and elegant clothes in red and purple. The Drudge are the labor class, engaged in mining, construction, farming, and other jobs, and wear crude and resilient clothing colored yellow and olive. Of note are the differing builds; Drudge tend to be the tallest and most muscular, with no difference in height between males and females. Wards are of average stature with average builds, ranging from slim to heavy, with females shorter than males. Kin can be of slim to obese builds, with females being the shortest, while males have the same height range as both Wards and Drudge.

A unique characteristic is that they have a very broad comfort level regarding temperature, experiencing a wide range of climates from arid desert to sub-arctic conditions as if they were room temperature.

There are two populations of Frills. The smaller one, currently ruled by three matriarchs, lives in an arid desert, harnessing subterranean resources and water. This isolation is simply due to the difficulty in reaching them, though their presence is known. Only a few well-prepared merchants, diplomats, and adventurers can reach them, but they do so regularly. The second, larger population, with seven matriarchs, lives in the mountain tops of Blue Mountain. They are fully isolated and self-sufficient, with only a handful of explorers having reached the summit of Blue Mountains and returned. As such, the mountain population is nearly unknown to the rest of the world; only from dated accounts of long-passed explorations can they confirm their existence, let alone whether they continue to exist. The Desert Frills are known, receiving a few visits throughout the year.

Because their land is otherwise inhospitable to most other races, they don't suffer from external attacks into their territories, especially the mountain Frills. Instead, any territorial conflicts are internal, as the Matriarchs compete for power. As such, they have a limited military consisting of guards, with their weapon of choice being the Bo staff. They deal with common crimes and may help their Matriarch in sabotage and striking blows to their rivals.

The establishment of the two populations is long forgotten. Long ago, a smaller Frill community lived in a western swampland. As war broke out, they were pushed further east until they eventually settled in the current desert they occupy today. The desert's impassibility provided a large degree of security from the raging wars. However, for a splinter group, the desert was not secure enough, so they continued eastward until they reached the foot of the Blue Mountains. They took their chances and climbed up the perilous mountains, eventually settling the mountaintops. This history is lost to everyone; the populations don't even know the other one exists, with the mountain Frills being so isolated that they don't dare to climb down.

The mountain Frills effectively live in an island. They live on the peaks above the cloud line. They don’t venture into the thick clouds to descend the mountains. The few who have done so, never returned. It is unknown if they made it down, or perished along the way. 

The territory ruled by a Matriarch is called the House, named after the Matriarch family. Cities and towns are referred as Houselets, named after a Matron. A Matron is either another female in the Matriarch’s family, or from another Kin family. Villages and farms are referred to as Chalets. Typically, a Ward governs a Chalet, but a Drudge can also assume those positions. The name of the House can change if a minor family, headed by Matrons, successfully supplants the Matriarch. Class mobility can only happen through marriage, with the husband adopting the wife's class. The most common mobility is of a Ward female marrying a Drudge male, assuming the new Ward class. However, this is rare, with other permutations even less so. This means only males have class mobility, with only usurpation and coercion being viable means for females to change class, which is already challenging since their physical builds are widely different. A tall muscular Drudge could not pretend to be a short, elegant Kin, though it has happened once or twice.

Frill naming convention consists of a personal name and a family name chosen from a pool of names, which are derived from Shakespearean characters as a meta design element. For example, Jul, Jia, and Juniet are stylized after Juliet. This is a meta guideline for designing Frill names for characters. The family name is passed from the mother, and the number of syllables indicates their class; Kin have three-syllable family names, Wards have two, and Drudge have one. Additionally, the territory of the Matriarch, referred to as their domain, carries the Matriarch's family name. For example, the Firida Domain is ruled by the Firida family, with Viola Firida being the Matriarch.

The name of a domain can change if a minor family, headed by Matrons, successfully supplants the Matriarch. Class mobility can only happen through marriage, with the husband adopting the wife's class. The most common mobility is of a Ward female marrying a Drudge male, assuming the new Ward class. However, this is rare, with other permutations even less so. This means only males have class mobility, with only usurpation and coercion being viable means for females to change class, which is already challenging since their physical builds are widely different. A tall muscular Drudge could not pretend to be a short, elegant Kin, though it has happened once or twice.

on the mountain frills. They live above the cloudline of Blue mountain. there are 5 large peaks that rise above the cloudline. these five peaks are populated. the peaks are connected by strong and impressive bridges and zip line carriages. one peak is connected to the other three,  thus serving as an important hub. This central peak is the richest and most powerful ruled by one matriarch. the largest peak is ruled by three matriarchs. another peak is ruled by two, and the smallest is ruled by just one. 
they have sufficient farming and ranching industries for food, clothing and materials. but limited mining. because of the sub arctic temperatures, water is permanently frozen as a type of rock. it is this rock ice that they mine, not other stones or metals. they use rock ice as a building material. it can be remelted to basically any shape. it can also be distilled into drinking water. Deposits of Rock Ice are always growing, the water rises from the base of the mountain and freezes when it reaches the top

They live above the cloudline. While otherwise extremely cold,  the weather is extremely calm. There are no clouds above them, so no precipitation at all. Sun always shines in the day, and moon and stars are always visible. The wind tends to be calm and gentle. During spring and winter, the cloudline rises. Sometimes it may raise a few inches, sometimes it can completely cover the peaks

The cloudline is ever present, blocking their view on what is below. Only for maintenance on the bridges, does anyone venture below the cloudline. and they don't venture beyond the support columns, in fact there is a safety barrier around each column. anything beyond the barriers is unknown. the clouds are very thick, and it covers about half a mile down. it hides many sheer cliffs. many who have venture have simply fallen down one of those cliffs, either to their end, or simply unable to climb back up. additionally, the predators that hunt in the area are really good at seeing thru the clouds.

There have been explores. those who have returned, simply didn't go that far. those who haven't, either perished, or simply didn't returned, they made it down the mountain, couldn't go back up, and continue exploring the vast new world, if they went down the east side. on the west side of blue mountain, there is another isolated area. the southern snow fields. 

the southern snow fields is surrounded by very harsh waters at all sides but the west. where Blue Mountain is located. It is populated by another race of people, the Imoh, which are even more isolated than the Frill. 
those who survive descending the west side of Blue mountain have the entire world open to them.

The Imoh are beyond the scope of this description. the items relevant are that the Imoh do know about the Frill. about every couple of decades, a frill descends from the mountain, either an adventurer, or they fell and survived. on the other hand, no one knows about the Imoh, as anyone would ether have to cross Blue Mountain, or navigate the harsh waters surrounding it, and return back to tell about the Imoh.The Imoh themselves are perfectly content not exploring beyond. Any frill that ends up the the Imoh are welcomed, and end up living the rest of their lives among them. also the Imoh are shorter than the Frill

For the Desert Frill, they live in an arid desert. Which is nearly inhospitable. there are neighboring kingdoms of other races that occupy the desert lands surrounding theirs. as such, they are landlocked, but they are OK with that. They dont seek expansion, and their neigbors dont want to expand into Frill lands. Trade and diplomacy is common between the Desert Frills and their neighbors. just that their neibors need to invest in a way to keep themselves cool. 
The Desert Frills are able to mine for underground resources, stones, metals, gems and precious stones and metals. The also mine underground water in aquifers. they have limited farming, mainly fruits and spices. they import a lot from their neighbors, in turn the export their underground resources. there are currently 3 matriarchs, there used to be four, but the fourth line failed to have an heir. a long conflict ensued between those who wanted to re establish the line, and the other matriarch who wanted that territory. eventually two matriarch ended up splitting the land from the fourth line. there are those who still hope to re establish that fourth matriarch line



1.	Matriarchs have full control of their own house. Nothings stops them from seeking counsel from one another. The matriarchs are equivalent to queens in an absolute monarchy.
2.	Daily life varies between classes. The Kin (Noble class) have a lot of leisure time. Thou they still have to deal with governance. Depending of the situation, they may have a day of open audience, were there subject come to their halls and present their problems to the Kin so they may make a ruling on the matter. The Wards (Service, Military) they tend to the Kin. Cook their food, provide clerical and administration service, as well as guard and enforcement. To be at the beck and call for the kin. They do have some number of days off . the Drudge (Labor) work from sun up till sun down, every day in which ever occupation they hold. They have two large festivals each year
3.	No one that ever descended the mountains has ever return. The few that have gone below the cloudline and returned did not venture far enough. Many of them are charlatans, spinning fantastical stories of the world below the cloudline. 
4.	her former subjects have a variety of opinions, from how she was better than the new matriarch, that they are better without her, to that it make no difference. Some of her Kin remain loyal to her, even making claims to be the rightfull ruler, but others have have embraced the new matriarcs, for better or worse.
5.	The desert Frills import a lot of food from their neighbours, especially the Lor. Since verry little can grow in the arid desert. In turn, they export the stone and metal they mine from under the sands. The matriarch control different mines, different materials. 
6.	No, The frills are just hardy people. They have a wide range of temperature that they feel comfortable. And require little sustenance. They do mine water from underground aquifers. 
7.	The mountain frills have no idea what lies bellow the cloudline, much less another population. The desert frills do have an idea there is another population somewere. Every coulple of decades or so, A mountain frill that survive the decent, ends up encountering the desert frills. 
8.	There mythology do have shared elements, as they were a single population in the past. They originate from a swamp in the west, and were pushed eastward. Some stayd in the desert, and the other ones were further pushed up the mountains. One particular is the highest deity. They share the same name “Arilys”, and many stories as well.  However, the Desert Frills represent her with the moon(the desert is more vibrant at cool night), while the mountain frills represent her with the sun(otherwise nothing would survive so up high in the mountains.).
9.	Marriage within the class is common place. So is a marriage between a Drudge and Ward, with the drudge becoming a ward. Ward don’t join the drudge family. Kin females can choose any they want, but it is rare for them to chose someone who is not a Kin. Kin males can also marry anyone, but they get demoted to their spouses class. Drudge are more egalitarian in their domestic and family roles. Male wards take care of most domentic and family tasks. This is also extended to the Kin, as it is the wards that tend for the Kin, the raise their children too. male Kin are consorts to female Kin. they hol no more power than their female companion alows them to wield. can be the same as hers or none at all.
10.	Wards have an guard branch that take care in maters of enforcement and security, they ansert to the matriarct other matrons. It is the the matriarch and her matrons (royal court) that make decrees as they each see fit. The matriarch can overrule any of her matrons. They are the lawmajers, judges and jurys. The guards are the executioners. 





---

A meta property is that personal names are derived from Shakespearean characters. For example, Jul, Jia, and Juniet are stylized after Juliet, Viola from Viola, Benlio from Benvolio, and Felia from Ophelia. Additionally, their family names are derived from words relating to cold temperature. Firida and Fir are based on the word frigid. Other family names, Hidelo and Nivet, come from Spanish words for ice and snow, hielo, and nieve. This is a meta guideline for designing Frill names for characters. The name of the race Frill is derived from the Spanish word for cold, frio. Meta properties are only for world building purposes, it has no impact in the characters, stories nor in the world.

Another meta design element is that family names are derived from words relating to cold temperature. Firida is based on the word frigid. Other family names, Hidelo and Nivet, come from Spanish words for ice and snow, hielo, and nieve.


