---
layout: post
title: Ma Hir
date: 2024-10-22 03:02:57 -0800
categories: [docs]
tags: [discom]
---
# Ma Hir
---
This is a description of a race of people tha live in the world of Threa, the Ma Hir.

The Ma Hir are an underwater matriarchall society with rich military culture

on the appearance , they have many features for marine living, they have no visible nose. They have smooth skin, like a dolphins. it colors in shades and tints of deep blue to purple, with some markings in cyan and light blues. a common marking is their snout and their eyebrows. other markings that may or may not be present include their fingers, toes, shoulders, fins, lobes and tendrils. their heads are crowned with three thick fins. females have tendrils on the side of their heads, males have lobes. their arms are broad and flat, with flipper like hands and four flat fingers. they have flat, flipper like feet with two toes. the have a short, flat tail. they dress in simple robes, togas, flowy shirt and wide pants. the fabric color tends to be browns or greens. 

being matriarchal, women hold power in society. their entire military and ruling class are women. their occupation also encompasses their military rank. with the sovereign being the General Queen. other may be Soldier Farmer, Sargent Baronet or other combination of their Military role and Civilian role. males do not have military roles. their weapon of choice are spears, including bidents and tridents. Spears, provide Excelent pierce damage, moderate slash and blunt damage.

Because they are the only underwater race, only other Ma Hir contest each others underwater claims. however, they tend to claim waterside land as well as the surface of their waters, bringing them into conflict with other people

Ma Hir not only populates underwater lands in lakes and rivers but also has above water territory on coasts and shores. some also live in flotillas. few live in the sea, as saltwater is harsh for them. they can venture deep inland, but require special accommodations in deserts and frozen regions

Ma Hir Names consist of personal name and family name, inherited from the mother. they also prepend their title depending on the situation. an example would be Sargent Baronet Jarry Luval or Warrior Princes Llury Tyne
